---
layout: post
title:  "3. Object Oriented Programming"
date:   2020-11-11 12:26:54 +0100
permalink: 3-oop.html
---
## Slides
- [Here](https://github.com/jkrude/java-beginner-lesson/blob/master/slides/03-oop.pdf)

## Exercise
In this task it is your job to implement a Taxi class that represents taxis, 
which have a driver and seats for four passengers. 

Follow the steps below to solve this task.
#### Step 1: The basic `Human` class

Every passenger in the taxi will be represented by an object of the `Human` class.

Create a basic `Human` class according to the following description:
- A `Human` has the String attributes `forename` and `name` (the surname).
- The constructor of `Human` has two `String` parameters, forename and name, which will be used to initialize the attributes of the same name.
- Furthermore, every `Human` can be asked for his name using `getName()` or his forename using `getForename()`.


#### Step 2: The basic Taxi class

Create a class called Taxi which represents a taxi.
A taxi is described as follows:
- A taxi has a driver of type `Human`.
- A taxi has four seats, therefore it can store four `Human`s (Array of type `Human`)
- When a Taxi is created using its constructor, a driver must be assigned to it.
- It must be possible to get the full name of the taxi driver by calling `getDriverName()` on a Taxi object. It should return a String such as Juergen Staub.

#### Step 3: Implement Taxi.add(…)

- Each taxi can transport up to four passengers plus its driver.
- `Human`s get into the taxi separately.
- The Taxi class has the method add(`Human` passenger) to add a new passenger.
    - If the taxi is full, the method doesn’t add the passenger. Instead, the following message must be printed to the console:
        > We are sorry, Lucky Fuke. The taxi is full.
    - If otherwise the taxi wasn’t full, the passenger is added and another message is printed:
        > Lucky Fuke gets in.

#### Step 4: Implement Taxi.allGetOut()

- Although passengers get in separately, they can only get out all together.
- This happens when the method `allGetOut()` is called on a Taxi object.
 → After that, the taxi is empty again except for the driver. 
 - Furthermore, `Taxi.allGetOut()` returns an array (type `Human`[]) with the former passengers or an empty array if there were no passengers in the taxi.
    - The returned array must not contain null values!


#### Example code
Insert the following code into the method body:
```java
Human juergen = new Human("Juergen", "Staub");

Human andrea = new Human("Andrea", "Bora");
Human franzi = new Human("Franzi", "Ada");
Human leah = new Human("Leah", "Posh");
Human susi = new Human("Susi", "Fresh");
Human lucky = new Human("Lucky", "Fuke");

Taxi taxi = new Taxi(juergen);

taxi.getDriverName();

taxi.add(andrea);
taxi.add(franzi);
taxi.add(leah);
taxi.add(susi);
taxi.add(lucky);
taxi.allGetOut();

```
If you have done everything right, there should be no compile errors and you should get the following output:

"Juergen, Staub"

Andrea Bora gets in.
Franzi Ada gets in.
Leah Posh gets in.
Susi Fresh gets in.
We are sorry, Lucky Fuke. The taxi is full.

> This task is brazenly copied from [Inloop](https://inloop.inf.tu-dresden.de/solutions/editor/classes-and-objects-taxi/)
